Now did we get these basics out of the way and before we dive way deeper into React Native and also
how we can style our apps and a little bit of a more beautiful way because obviously our styling here
definitely still has some upside potential to put it like this.
Before we dive all of that let me show you another exciting component that's built into React Native
and that also shows how easily you can add cool features to react native apps.
And that's the modal component.
You find it of course in your official box and that components and API is guide here and there you will
find a modal down there.
Now it's under others and here this modal is a nice component that allows you to well add such a nice
overlay full screen overlay with a little effort.
Now let's add a modal for actually hosting our goal input.
Right now the goal input is here at the top and that's all right.
But I actually want to move that into a modal so that we have it on a full screen overlay in the end.
And we only have a button here at the top.
So in place of coal input which opens that model.
So let's go to goal input and there.
I want you.
Well wrapped as into a Modal Soul import modal from React Native because it's a component shipping With
React Native and there.
I want to use that modal around my view here.
So just like this for now and now let's save that.
Let's see if that already changes something a bit.
Yeah or styling is off.
We're losing that padding which we set up originally.
Right.
And Ab J.S. we have that general padding on our screen view which is dead out of you.
Well it's certainly not getting applied on the two platforms anymore on the two devices because our
content is way outside of this screen and sort of modal is already doing something.
Of course we're not really seeing that much now for modal.
So for this modal component you can set a wizard will keep that defines whoever it is as well currently
visible or not and that takes a Boolean if we set this to false for example and thereafter we have a
look at our applications.
We of course seen empty screen by the way in case Android shouldn't update for you after settings to
false simply closed the app here with the help of the app drawer and thereafter in your process down
there the people start process press a again to restart this on Android.
So now we have an empty screen when this is set to false.
Now we obviously a hard coating this is not the solution.
Instead an app us and I won't have a button which allows us to open that model and then we will close
the modal from inside the mode.
When we pressed the app button there that we're already importing button here into app J.S. and now
that I see this we can of course also get rid of this these imports which we're not using here right
now.
So just leave the button import here along with the ivory imports we are using.
And now here at the very top we can add the button which sets the self closing tag though and set the
title to add new gold maybe something like that if we do that we of course should see that button here
at the top.
And here it is.
And now when we press that button we want to show that modal right now for that we need to manage more
state.
So in here besides managing the course goals I will now also manage where we're currently in course
at Mode or if we're not.
So initially we're not so the initial state I'm setting is false and I'll name my state here and of
course that is totally up to you.
I'll name it is at Mode and set is at Mode.
Again these names are up to you.
I'm just having a convention here which you all defined in the official react docks where here we try
to give the state we're controlling a fitting name and then we basically take that name and add set
in front of it to make it clear that this is the function to change that state.
So set is at Mode is what we in the end need to call when this button is pressed.
And here we can use it inline function or use a named function and just add the handler here whatever
you want.
I'll go with the inline function and call set as ad mode and set this to true here.
When this button is called so of be open a motel now we can take that is add mode to a state where you
are changing and past is two goal input to then change the visibility of the model in their so here
we could add a visible prop but that prop name is up to you because it's on our own component and I
passed he is add mode.
So that's the state we're controlling to visible mode.
So the value stored in is ad mode is passed as a value to the visible prop.
Now in goal input we can therefore now use that visible prop.
So here we can use props visible.
Now referring to the visible prop we got on the goal input which we then forward to the visible prop
of the modal if we now save that and we have a look at our app.
If I press add new goal here indeed you see that modal content appear again.
Now obviously it's not looking that beautiful here.
So we should change this.
And one other thing I want to change is that animation would be nice here for opening the model right.
So here let's add animation type which is a nice prop. We can set here and you can set this to a string
and there you got three options non is the default but you can set this to slide.
And now the models would actually appear by sliding up.
So if you press at New Gold now it is slides up.
All is on Android.
So that's a way better user experience I'd say the next step is that we ensure that our content in the
mobile is presented in a nicer way may be centered here in the middle of the modal.